# fault_id - Indentification of faulty systems

Welcome to this repository! It contains Matlab code to reproduce the results of [the paper entitled "Output behavior equivalence and simultaneous subspace identification of systems and faults"](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.13294), by Gabriel Gleizer. 

## What this software can do

This software implements a system identification algorithm. We consider the problem where the input–output data is corruputed by an external disturbance that is of sufficient low dimension, and we want to understand how this disturbance enters the system. Mathematically, suppose you have data generated by an LTI system of the type

$$ \begin{align}
    x(k+1) &= Ax(k) + Bu(k) + Fv(k),\\
    y(k) &= Cx(k) + Du(k) + Gv(k),
\end{align} $$

where $x$ is the (unmeasured) state, $y$ is the output, $u$ is the input, and $v$ is an unknown external disturbance or fault signal. Suppose further that the system matrices $A, B, C, D, F, G$ are unknown. Assuming that the input signal is sufficiently rich and has some additional properties (see the paper for details), `fault_id` can estimate the matrices $A, B, C, D, F, G$ without requiring fault-free data. In the less stringent setting where $A, B, C, D$ are known but $F, G$ are not, `fault_id` can retrieve precisely the span of matrices $F$ and $G$ that explain the data such that $v$ has minimal dimension. 

## How to run
```
>> init;
>> total_pipeline_example;  % For the first example
>> montecarlo;  % For the Monte-Carlo simulation
```

The live script `total_pipeline_example` is a good place to start if you want to understand how to use the software.

## Requirements
* [matlab2tikz](https://github.com/matlab2tikz/matlab2tikz) to generate tikz figures (remove code if you do not want to generate tikz)
* Control System Toolbox
* Statistics and Machine Learning Toolbox

The code was executed and tested in MATLAB Version 23.2.0.2515942 (R2023b) Update 7.

## Acknowledgements
This work was carried out at the Delft Center for Systems and Control, Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, TU Delft. The author acknowledges Prof. Michel Verhaegen for the discussions that led to the investigation of this problem.

## License
This is an open-source software under the BSD 3-Clause license. See `LICENSE` for details.
